The two pictures compare the layout of a school as it was in the year 2004 
with a proposed site design for the year 2024.
It is clear that the main change for 2024 involves the addition of a new 
school building. The school will then be able to accommodate a 
considerably larger number of students.
In 2004, there were 600 pupils attending the school, and the two school 
buildings were separated by a path running from the main entrance to the
sports field. By 2024, it is expected that there will be 1000 pupils, and 
a third building will have been constructed. Furthermore, the plan is to 
join the two original buildings together, creating a shorter path that 
links the buildings only.
As the third building and a second car park will be built on the site of 
the original sports field, a new, smaller sports field will need to be 
laid. A new road will also be built from the main entrance to the second 
car park. Finally, no changes will be made to the main entrance and 
original car park.

The map shows the growth of a village called Chorleywood between 1868 and 
1994.
It is clear that the village grew as the transport infrastructure was 
improved. Four periods of development are shown on the map, and each of 
the populated areas is near to the main roads, the railway or the motorway.
From 1868 to 1883, Chorleywood covered a small area next to one of the 
main roads. Chorleywood Park and Golf Course is now located next to this 
original village area. The village grew along the main road to the south 
between 1883 and 1922, and in 1909 a railway line was built crossing this 
area from west to east. Chorleywood station is in this part of the village.
The expansion of Chorleywood continued to the east and west alongside the 
railway line until 1970. At that time, a motorway was built to the east 
of the village, and from 1970 to 1994, further development of the village 
took place around motorway intersections with the railway and one of the 
main roads.

The map shows two potential locations (S1 and S2) for a new supermarket 
in a town called Garlsdon.
The main difference between the two sites is that S1 is outside the town, 
whereas S2 is in the town centre. The sites can also be compared in terms 
of access by road or rail, and their positions relative to three smaller 
towns.
Looking at the information in more detail, S1 is in the countryside to 
the north west of Garlsdon, but it is close to the residential area of 
the town. S2 is also close to the housing area, which surrounds the town 
centre.
There are main roads from Hindon, Bransdon and Cransdon to Garlsdon town 
centre, but this is a no traffic zone, so there would be no access to S2 
by car. By contrast, S1 lies on the main road to Hindon, but it would be 
more difficult to reach from Bransdon and Cransdon. Both supermarket sites 
are close to the railway that runs through Garlsdon from Hindon to 
Cransdon.

The maps show a currently industrial area to the east of Norbiton and redevelopment
plans. Overall, the goal is to redevelop into a residential neighborhood, with additional
housing and other supporting facilities. Currently, there is a roundabout that connects a southern and an eastern road, with
several factories in the area that are to be removed in the redevelopment.
The area around the eastern road is to be for housing, a school at the end, and a
playground to the north. Another road is planned to be added north from the
roundabout and over a river, with housing along the western side of the road. The
farmland north of the river is to be replaced by additional housing where a road
parallel to the river is to be constructed and linked to the northbound road. There are
also plans to construct another road northwest from the roundabout. More housing is
to be built along one side and at the end of this road.
To the southwest of the roundabout, shops are planned to be constructed. Across
the street to the southeast is to be a medical center. A second roundabout is also to
be added where the south road currently meets the main road in a T-intersection.

The plans show Southwest Airport now and next year, after redevelopment.
Overall, the airport will be expanded to provide more gates, and the addition of other
new facilities will offer more convenience for both departing and arriving passengers.
The departures entrance is on the left as one faces the building. Upon entering,
passport control and security can be seen straight ahead. After redevelopment, a
bag-drop area will be added in the departures hall, before one goes through passport
control. Although the check-in counters will be relocated to make room for the new
bag-drop area, they will still be right before passport control. The café, on the other
hand, will be moved close to the entrances.
Once through security, passengers will see some shops, which the airport currently
doesn’t have. Ahead is the concourse. At the moment, there are 8 gates and
passengers may use a moving walkway to get to their boarding gate. Going forward,
the airport will have a much longer concourse with 18 gates so the walkway will be
replaced by a sky train.
Moving on to the arrivals hall, at present passport control and customs are the only
services in the hall. Beginning next year, however, there will be a cafe, ATM machines
and car hire arriving passengers can use after clearing customs.

The two maps display an island before and after some tourist facilities were
constructed.
Overall, with the construction of different types of facilities, the island has been
transformed into a tourist attraction where people can stay, eat, play and easily get
around.
The island is about 250 meters long. Before development started, it only had a beach
along its western coast and some stands of palms near its eastern and western ends.
These natural features have remained unchanged after development.
However, two accommodation areas with footpaths have been built in the center and
west of the island respectively. The footpaths in the western accommodation area
have been extended westward to the beach where people can now go swimming.
Between the two accommodation areas is reception, which is surrounded by a
vehicle track. This track connects with the footpaths west of it, and extends
northward to a new restaurant and southward to a new pier. The eastern part of the
island remains unspoilt.

The maps display the current layout of the center of a small town, Islip, and how it is
planned to develop it.
Overall, the town center is to be brought up-to-date, with the construction of some
modern facilities and more housing.
There is a main road running east-west through the town center. This road has two
side roads, one leading to the school southwest of the town center and the other to
the park in the southeast. While the main road is to be pedestrianized, the two side
roads are to be turned into a dual carriageway, extending to the countryside north of
the town center.
All the shops north of the main road are to be demolished to make room for a
shopping center, which is to have a car park and bus station nearby. There are also
plans to build some new housing northeast of the main road.
To the south of the main road are some shops and housing. The shops are to remain
unchanged, whereas the housing is to be relocated. Lastly, some parts of the park are
going to be cleared so that new residential buildings can be built, and an extension is
planned for the school.


The plans display how a university’s sports center looks now and how it is planned to
redevelop it.
Overall, the center is to become completely roofed over and multi-functional, with
different types of facilities being added.
The entrance of the center is in the middle of its southern wall. Upon entering,
reception can be seen directly/straight ahead. Behind reception is a 25-meter-long
pool, which has a changing room to its west and seating to its east. All these facilities
are to remain unchanged.
However, the gym north of the pool is to be extended eastward, and the outdoor
courts east of the pool is to be removed to make room for a sports hall and two
dance studios. These new amenities will have a changing room added to the south of
them.
There are also plans to demolish the outdoor courts to the west of the central pool.
Instead, a new indoor leisure pool is to be constructed, with a changing room south of
it. Lastly, a sports shop and cafe are to be built southwest and southeast of the
reception area respectively.

Overall, the park layout has been updated to include modern facilities, which have
replaced some natural features. The updates have improved the park’s accessibility
and functionality.
The two entrances on Arnold Avenue and Eldon Street have remained the same.
However, the park now has an underground car park, and a right side entrance from
Eldon Street was constructed for car park users.
Once inside the park from Eldon Street, the central feature used to be a fountain,
which has now been replaced by a rose garden surrounded by seats. To the right of
the Eldon Street entrance, a water feature has been added, taking the place of the
previous glasshouse and seating area. A café and children’s play area now occupy the
space where the rose garden and water plants’ pond used to be, opposite the water
feature.
The park’s left side, which previously housed a stage for musicians, now features an
amphitheater. The only unchanged feature in this area is the rose garden on the
Arnold Avenue side.

The two maps display how road access to a city hospital had changed by 2010
compared with 2007.
Overall, there had not been many changes made, except two new roundabouts, a new
car park, and the replacement of the bus stops by a bus station.
Surrounding the hospital was Ring Road, which was connected to City Road by
Hospital Road. By 2010, two roundabouts had been added, at the junctions of
Hospital Road with Ring Road and with City Road respectively.
There was a car park for staff and the public on the southeast side of Ring Road in
2007. However, by 2010, it had become a staff-only car park, and a new public one
had been built on the east side of this road.
Furthermore, the bus stops at both sides of Hospital Road had been replaced by a
large bus station with direct access to the two roundabouts.